(518) 653-5318 J a co b C lo u se jacobpclouse.me

 

Albany, NY github.com/jacobpclouse
clouse.jp@gmail.com Software Developer linkedin.com/in/jpclouse
TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE

Software Developer Jan 2022 — Present
New York State Office of Information Technology Albany, NY

+ Worked across teams to redesign and refactor assembler transaction macros, reducing permit record processing time by 10%.

+ Developed a mainframe application that allows DMV users to federal credentials to verify their identity. This eliminates
redundant checks, streamlines renewals and reduces the workload for the both the end user and DMV employees.

* Built and maintained an application that scaled to 20,000 daily users, communicating with cross-functional teams regarding
business rules, layout, and design enabling 19 million NYS residents to renew licenses, pay fees and earn permits.

+ Participated in code reviews and gained feedback from senior engineers and experience in writing custom, scalable code.

Web Application Developer Oct 2021 — Present

SUNY Ubiquitous Networking Laboratory Albany, NY

+ Asa part of the Rural Emergency Preparedness and Response team, maintained the online web dashboard to track signal
strength, weather conditions, and emergency preparedness information (EPR) across the capital region using Angular.JS with
Java, XML and MySQL database.

* Created and configured perfSONAR toolkit instance on a local CentOS server to test the UAlbany’s network connectivity
(throughput, jitter, traceroute, ping, etc) against multiple international nodes and documented findings.

* Collected data and analyzed traffic patterns to create documentation in Python utilizing Django, RESTful APIs, and Cassandra.

Webmaster Jan 2021 — Present

Ravena Coeymans Historic Society Coeymans, NY

+ Setup website and configured plugins from scratch - coeymanshistory.org.

+ Oversee weekly project meetings with my supervisor to discuss viability of new features and overall site security.

+ Independently researched and developed a solution for a long-standing client requests regarding site migration, backups and
alias domains. Worked in cPanel to setup IP blocking, email forwarding and install WordPress.

+ Worked with our hosting providers and domain registrar to troubleshoot configuration issues with WordPress and plugins.

EDUCATION & CERTIFICATIONS

 

 

Computer Science MS, Georgia Institute of Technology Aug 2022 - Present
Computer Information Systems BS, Sage College of Albany — GPA: 3.744, Departmental Honors Aug 2014 - May 2017
CompTIA Certifications: Security+ — IT Fundamentals+
University at Albany Certifications: Cloud Computing with Microsoft Azure — Mobile App Design
PROJECTS

Image to MP3 Converter / Encrypter (Built with Python, Flask, Bootstrap, SQLite, JavaScript, Twilio Sendgrid API, SMS)

+ Lets a user upload an image or screenshot of text and will output an encrypted mp3 of the text.

+ Ituses Twilio’s Sendgrid API to send the encrypted mp3 to the user as an attachment with the key sent via Text SMS.

+ Users must authenticate in order to utilize the service with credentials securely stored in an encrypted database.

* Decryption is done via another upload or a local script that can be run on the user’s machine.

+ The site uses Bootstrap and CSS variables to be both responsive and user friendly.

Karnivalli (React, Django, Redis, PostgreSQL, Heroku)

* Series of multi-player mini-games, login/register, in-game chat and live game watching functionalities. Coordinated weekly
sprints, developed initial project layout, maintained front end styles and drafted SRS documentation.

Anonymizer (Python, TCP, UDP Stop and Wait)

+ Anonymizer is a client-server application that anonymizes user-specified words from a text file via two reliable data transport
protocols: TCP and UDP Stop-and-Wait. Built with network sockets and verified data integrity with packet analysis.

 

SKILLS

Languages Python, JavaScript, Assembler, Java, C#, C/C++, SQL, HTML, CSS, XML, JSON, LaTeX
Frameworks React.js , Angular.js, Flask, Bootstrap, Django, SOAP/REST, WordPress

Development Tools Git, Docker, Jira, Figma, CentOS, cPanel, MySql, MS SQL Server, PostgreSQL, MongoDB

RELEVANT ACTIVITIES

 

Secureworks Cybersecurity Literacy Challenge — Python URL Virus Checker 2022 Hackathon Participant
+ Checks for malicious URLs with VirusTotal’s API & outputs results to a local text file, logs all test scans run.
Python Simplified Summer Code Jam — Python Job Board Web Scraper 2022 Hackathon Participant

+ Uses Python to scrap NYS’s public jobs website and export it into a CSV doc & JSON file using pandas & BeautifulSoap.
